---
title: Scale your azd Python web app with Bicep
description: Quickstart article featuring the modification of Bicep files and using azd provision to scale your azd Python web app.
ms.date: 3/20/2025
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.custom: devx-track-python, devx-track-bicep, devx-track-extended-azdevcli
---

# Quickstart: Scaling services deployed with the azd Python web templates using Bicep

The [Python web `azd` templates](./overview-azd-templates.md) allow you to quickly create a new web application and deploy it to Azure. The `azd` templates were designed to use low-cost Azure service options. Undoubtedly, you'll want to adjust the service levels (or skus) for each of the services defined in the template for your scenario.

In this Quickstart, you'll update the appropriate bicep template files to scale up existing services and add new services to your deployment. Then, you'll run the `azd provision` command and view the change you made to the Azure deployment.

## Prerequisites

An Azure subscription - [Create one for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?azure-portal=true)

You must have the following installed on your local computer:

- [Azure Developer CLI](../azure-developer-cli/install-azd.md?tabs=winget-windows%2Cbrew-mac%2Cscript-linux&pivots=os-windows)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Dev Container Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
- [Visual Studio Code Bicep](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-bicep) This extension helps you author Bicep syntax.

## Deploy a template

To begin, you need a working `azd` deployment. Once you have that in place, you're able to modify the Bicep files generated by the `azd` template.

1. Follow steps 1 through 7 in the [Quickstart article](./quickstart-python-web-azd-templates.md). In step 2, use the `azure-django-postgres-flexible-appservice` template. For your convenience, here's the entire sequence of commands to issue from the command line:

   ```shell
   mkdir azdtest
   cd azdtest
   azd init --template azure-django-postgres-flexible-appservice
   azd auth login
   azd up
   ```

   Once `azd up` finishes, open the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure App Service that was deployed in your new Resource Group and take note of the App Service pricing plan (see the App Service plan's Overview page, Essentials section, "Pricing plan" value).

2. In step 1 of the Quickstart article, you were instructed to create the *azdtest* folder. Open that folder in Visual Studio Code.

3. In the Explorer pane, navigate to the *infra* folder. Observe the subfolders and files in the *infra* folder.

   The *main.bicep* file orchestrates the creation of all the services deployed when performing an `azd up` or `azd provision`. It calls into other files, like *db.bicep* and *web.bicep*, which in turn call into files contained in the *\core* subfolder.

   The *\core* subfolder is a deeply nested folder structure containing bicep templates for many Azure services. Some of the files in the *\core* subfolder are referenced by the three top level bicep files (*main.bicep*, *db.bicep* and *web.bicep*) and some aren't used at all in this project.

## Scale a service by modifying its Bicep properties

You can scale an existing resource in your deployment by changing its SKU. To demonstrate this, you'll change the App Service plan from the "Basic Service plan" (which is designed for apps with lower traffic requirements and don't need advanced auto scale and traffic management features) to the "Standard Service plan", which is designed for running production workloads.

> [!NOTE]
> Not all SKU changes can be made after the fact. Some research may be necessary to better understand your scaling options.

1. Open the *web.bicep* file and locate the `appService` module definition. In particular, look for the property setting:

   ```bicep
      sku: {
         name: 'B1'
      }
   ```

   Change the value from `B1` to `S1` as follows:

   ```bicep
      sku: {
         name: 'S1'
      }
   ```

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > As a result of this change, the price per hour will increase slightly. Details about the different service plans and their associated costs can be found on the [App Service pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/app-service/windows/).

2. Assuming you already have the application deployed in Azure, use the following command to deploy changes to the infrastructure while not redeploying the application code itself.

   ```shell
   azd provision
   ```

   You shouldn't be prompted for a location and subscription. Those values are saved in the *.azure\<environment-name>\.env* file where `<environment-name>` is the environment name you provided during `azd init`.

3. When `azd provision` is complete, confirm your web application still works. Also find the App Service Plan for your Resource Group and confirm that the Pricing Plan is set to the Standard Service Plan (S1).

This concludes the Quickstart, however there are many Azure services that can help you build more scalable and production-ready applications. A great place to start would be to learn about [Azure API Management](/azure/api-management/api-management-key-concepts), [Azure Front Door](/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview), [Azure CDN](/azure/cdn/cdn-overview), and [Azure Virtual Network](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview), to name a few.

## Clean up resources

Clean up the resources created by the template by running the [azd down](/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/reference#azd-down) command.

```shell
azd down
```

The `azd down` command deletes the Azure resources and the GitHub Actions workflow. When prompted, agree to deleting all resources associated with the resource group.

You can also delete the *azdtest* folder, or use it as the basis for your own application by modifying the files of the project.

## Related Content

- [Learn more about the Python web `azd` templates](./overview-azd-templates.md)
- [Learn more about the `azd` commands.](./overview-azd-templates.md#how-do-the-templates-work)
- Learn what each of the folders and files in the project do and [what you can edit or delete?](./overview-azd-templates.md#what-can-i-edit-or-delete)
- Update the Bicep templates to add or remove Azure services. Don't know Bicep? Try this [Learning Path: Fundamentals of Bicep](/training/paths/fundamentals-bicep/)
- [Use `azd` to set up a GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline to redeploy on merge to main branch](./overview-azd-templates.md)
- Set up monitoring so that you can [Monitor your app using the Azure Developer CLI](/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/monitor-your-app)
