---
title: Create an Azure virtual machine scale set from a Packer custom image by using Terraform
description: Learn how to use Terraform to configure and version an Azure virtual machine scale set from a custom image generated by Packer
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/31/2021
ms.custom: devx-track-terraform
---

# Create an Azure virtual machine scale set from a Packer custom image by using Terraform

[Azure virtual machine scale sets](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets) allow you to configure identical VMs. The number of VM instances can adjust based on demand or a schedule. For more information, see [Automatically scale a virtual machine scale set in the Azure portal](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-autoscale-portal).

In this article, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Set up your Terraform deployment
> * Use variables and outputs for Terraform deployment
> * Create and deploy a network infrastructure
> * Create a custom virtual machine image by using Packer
> * Create and deploy a virtual machine scale set by using the custom image
> * Create and deploy a jumpbox

## 1. Configure your environment

[!INCLUDE [open-source-devops-prereqs-azure-subscription.md](../includes/open-source-devops-prereqs-azure-subscription.md)]

[!INCLUDE [configure-terraform.md](includes/configure-terraform.md)]

## 2. Create a Packer image

1. [Install Packer](https://learn.hashicorp.com/packer/getting-started/install).

    **Key points:**

    - To confirm that you have access to the Packer executable, run the following command: `packer -v`.
    - Depending on your environment, you might need to set your path and reopen the command-line.
    
1. Run [az group create](/cli/azure/group#az_group_create) to create a resource group to hold the Packer image.

    ```azurecli
    az group create -n myPackerImages -l eastus
    ```

1. Run [az ad sp create-for-rbac](/cli/azure/ad/sp?#az_ad_sp_create_for_rbac) to enable Packer to authenticate to Azure using a service principal. 

    ```azurecli
    az ad sp create-for-rbac --query "{ client_id: appId, client_secret: password, tenant_id: tenant }"
    ```

    **Key points:**

    - Make note of the output values (`appId`, `client_secret`, `tenant_id`).

1. Run [az account show](/cli/azure/account#az_account_show) to display the current Azure subscription.

    ```azurecli
    az account show --query "{ subscription_id: id }"
    ```

1. Create a Packer template file named `ubuntu.json` and paste the following code:

    [!code-terraform[tarcher-move-sample-code-to-github](../../terraform_samples/quickstart/201-vmss-packer-jumpbox/ubuntu.json)]

    **Key points:**

    - Set the `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `tenant_id` fields to the respective values from your service principal.
    - Set the `subscription_id` field to the Azure subscription ID.

1. Build the Packer image.

    ```cmd
    packer build ubuntu.json
    ```

## 3. Implement the Terraform code

1. Create a directory in which to test and run the sample Terraform code.

1. Create your main Terraform configuration file. By convention, the name of this file is `main.tf`. However, you can specify any valid name for your environment.

1. Insert the following code into the main Terraform configuration file.

    [!code-terraform[tarcher-move-sample-code-to-github](../../terraform_samples/quickstart/201-vmss-packer-jumpbox/main.tf)]

1. Create a variables file that will contain the values for Terraform. By convention, the name of this file is `variables.tf`. However, you can specify any valid name for your environment.

1. Insert the following code into the variables file.

    [!code-terraform[tarcher-move-sample-code-to-github](../../terraform_samples/quickstart/201-vmss-packer-jumpbox/variables.tf)]

    [!INCLUDE [variables-terraform-file-key-points.md](includes/variables-terraform-file-key-points.md)]

1. Create a file to specify what values to output when the Terraform plan is applied. By convention, the name of this file is `output.tf`. However, you can specify any valid name for your environment.

    [!code-terraform[tarcher-move-sample-code-to-github](../../terraform_samples/quickstart/201-vmss-packer-jumpbox/output.tf)]

## 4. Initialize Terraform

[!INCLUDE [terraform-init.md](includes/terraform-init.md)]

## 5. Create a Terraform execution plan

[!INCLUDE [terraform-plan.md](includes/terraform-plan.md)]

## 6. Apply a Terraform execution plan

[!INCLUDE [terraform-apply-plan.md](includes/terraform-apply-plan.md)]

## 7. Verify the results

1. From the output of the `terraform apply` command, you'll see values for the following:

    - Virtual machine FQDN
    - Jumpbox FQDN
    - Jumpbox IP address

1. Browse to the virtual machine URL to confirm a default page with the text **Welcome to nginx!**.

1. Use SSH to connect to the jumpbox VM using the user name defined in the variables file and the password you specified when you ran `terraform apply`. For example: `ssh azureuser@<ip_address>`.

## 8. Clean up resources

### Delete virtual machine scale set

[!INCLUDE [terraform-destroy-plan.md](includes/terraform-destroy-plan.md)]

### Delete Packer image and resource group

Run [az group delete](/cli/azure/group#az_group_delete) to delete the resource group used to contain the Packer image. The Packer image is also deleted.

```azurecli
az group delete --name myPackerImages --yes
```

## Troubleshoot Terraform on Azure

[Troubleshoot common problems when using Terraform on Azure](troubleshoot.md)

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"] 
> [Learn more about using Terraform in Azure](/azure/terraform)
