---
title: Using Azure Export for Terraform in advanced scenarios
description: Learn how to append resources and use remote backends 
keywords: azure export terraform backend append existing
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 04/05/2023
ms.author: stema
ms.custom: devx-track-terraform
---

# Using Azure Export for Terraform in advanced scenarios

This article explains how to append resources to existing Terraform environments and export resources into an existing Terraform environment with a remote backend state. It concludes with an example workflow.

## Appending to existing resources

When exporting, `aztfexport` ensures by default the output directory is empty to avoid any conflicts for existing user files, including the terraform configuration, provider configuration, the state file, etc. As a result, `aztfexport` generates a new workspace for users.

If you instead wish to import resources to an existing state file via `aztfexport`, use the `--append` option.

```console
aztfexport [command] --append <scope>
```

When this option is run, `aztfexport` checks if there's a preexisting `provider` and `terraform` block (and create a file for each respectively if either doesn't exist). Then it proceeds with exporting.

Thus, if the output directory has a state file, any resource exported by `aztfexport` will be imported into the state file. Furthermore, the file generated by `aztfexport` in this case has an `.aztfexport` suffix before the extension (such as `main.aztfexport.tf`), to avoid potential file name conflicts. If you run `aztfexport --append` multiple times, the generated config in `main.aztfexport.tf` will append to itself in each run.

## Bring your own Terraform configuration

By default `aztfexport` uses a local backend to store the state file, but it's also possible to use a remote backend. Azure Export for Terraform enables you to define your own `terraform` or `provider` blocks to pass in. Simply define these blocks in a `.tf` file within your target directory, export with the `--append` flag enabled, and your config exports to the specified backend and provider version (if it's provided). Your provider version should match the `aztfexport` version of AzureRM when exporting or the command will fail.

### Azure Storage example

This example is based on the [tutorial on storing Terraform state in Azure storage](../store-state-in-azure-storage.md):

```console
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      source  = "hashicorp/azurerm"
      version = "~>3.0"
    }
  }
    backend "azurerm" {
        resource_group_name  = "tfstate"
        storage_account_name = "storageacc"
        container_name       = "tfstate"
        key                  = "terraform.tfstate"
    }

}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}
```

### Terraform Cloud example

```terraform
terraform {
  cloud {
    organization = "aztfexport-test"
    workspaces {
      name = "aztfexport-playground"
    }
  }
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      source = "hashicorp/azurerm"
      version = "~>3.0"
    }
  }
}
provider "azurerm" {
  features {
  }
}
```

### Inline experience

To export to a backend inline, use the `--backend-type` and `--backend-config` options. Refer to the [Terraform backend documentation](https://www.terraform.io/language/settings/backends) to identify your type and config values.

For our example of an Azure storage account, you need the resource group name, storage account name, and container name as defined in [the AzureRM backend documentation](https://www.terraform.io/language/settings/backends/azurerm#azurerm). Pass these parameters into the command along with your backend type:

```shell
aztfexport [subcommand] --backend-type=azurerm --backend-config=resource_group_name=<resource group name> --backend-config=storage_account_name=<account name> --backend-config=container_name=<container name> --backend-config=key=terraform.tfstate 
```

> [!NOTE]
> If the backend state already exists, `aztfexport` merges the new resources to the existing state automatically. You do not need to specify the `--append` option inline.

## Export Azure resources to an existing Terraform environment

Now let's put it all together! Imagine new resources have been created outside of Terraform that need to be moved into Terraform management. To complete the section, make sure you have a backend setup. This tutorial uses the same setup that is specified in the [Azure storage remote state tutorial](../store-state-in-azure-storage.md).

We use the `--hcl-only` flag to export the configured resources to HCL in a temp directory, and the `-o` flag to specify and create the directory if it doesn't yet exist.

```console
aztfexport res -o tempdir --hcl-only <Resource ID>
```

After we inspect and determine the resource can be appended, we utilize the generated [mapping file] and the `--append` flag to ensure Azure Export respects the preexisting remote state and provider versions within our existing environment:

```console
aztfexport map --append `./tempdir/aztfexportResourceMapping.json`
```

After which we run `terraform init` and `terraform plan` on the directory. If the terminal says `"No changes needed"` then congratulations! Your infrastructure and its corresponding state have been successfully appended to your Terraform environment.

If your plan runs into issues, see [Azure Export for Terraform](./export-terraform-overview.md) to understand limitations around deploying code generated by `--hcl-only`. If it doesn't solve your problem, open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/Azure/aztfexport/issues).

## Summary

In this article you learned how to export to existing environments, both for local and remote backends. You also learned how to bring your own Terraform config to be used by Azure Export for Terraform.