---
title: Generate Bicep from the azd compose feature
description: Learn how to generate Bicep files from the azd compose feature to further customize your infrastructure
author: alexwolfmsft
ms.author: alexwolf
ms.date: 04/21/2025
ms.service: azure-dev-cli
ms.topic: how-to
ms.custom: devx-track-azdevcli, devx-track-bicep
---

# Generate Bicep using the compose feature

The Azure Developer CLI (`azd`) compose feature simplifies the process of building, deploying, and managing cloud applications. By leveraging `azd compose`, you can define and manage the infrastructure and application code for your project in a unified way. This guide walks you through how to generate Bicep code from the `azd compose` feature, enabling you to further tailor your cloud infrastructure to your specific needs.

> [!NOTE]
> The `azd infra synth` feature is also in alpha status and must be enabled:
> ```bash
> azd config set alpha.infraSynth on
>```

### How `azd compose` Manages Infrastructure State

The `azd compose` feature keeps track of your infrastructure state in-memory. This approach allows you to iteratively define and refine your application and infrastructure without immediately generating files or making changes to your project directory. 

Once you run the `azd infra synth` command, the in-memory state is materialized into Bicep files in the `infra` folder. At this point, the infrastructure state transitions from being managed in-memory to being represented as code, enabling further customization.

> [!TIP]
> Use `azd compose` to quickly prototype your infrastructure before committing to file-based changes with `azd infra synth`.

### Generate the Bicep Code

If you'd like to explore or customize the Bicep used internally by `azd` to provision the resources created by `azd add`, run the `azd infra synth` command:

```bash
azd infra synth
```

`azd` generates the corresponding Bicep files in the `infra` folder of your app.

Running the `azd infra synth` command exits you from the `azd` compose feature and simplified init process. Changes you make to the Bicep files generated by `azd infra synth` aren't accounted for by `azd` compose. For example, after you run `azd infra synth`, if you edit the Bicep code and then run `azd infra synth`, the Bicep files you edited are overwritten by the regenerated code.

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Create Azure Developer CLI templates overview](/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/make-azd-compatible)
