---
title: "Quickstart: Create and Apply Your Own Task"
titleSuffix: GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java - Azure
description: Shows you how to create and apply your own task.
author: KarlErickson
ms.author: karler
ms.reviewer: xiading
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 06/30/2025
ms.custom: devx-track-java
ms.subservice: migration-copilot
---

# Quickstart: create and apply your own tasks for GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java

This quickstart shows you how to create and apply your own tasks when you use GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java.

In code development, enterprises often have different processes and controls to adhere to their organizational policies and business needs. This area is where *custom tasks* come in. A custom task is generated by analyzing code commits from already-migrated code. The task then guides Copilot to remediate code, following the pattern established by the already-migrated code.

The following video demonstrates using GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java to create and apply your own custom task to migrate a Java project to Azure:

<br>

> [!VIDEO https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZiO3eznAl5w]

## Prerequisites

- A GitHub account with [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) enabled. A Pro, Pro+, Business, or Enterprise plan is required.
- The latest version of [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/). Must be version 1.101 or later.
- The latest version of the [GitHub Copilot extension in Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/overview).
- [GitHub Copilot App Modernization](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-app-mod-pack) extension pack. For install instructions, see [Quickstart: assess and migrate a Java project using GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java](migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java-quickstart-assess-migrate.md).

  This extension pack bundles the following two extensions:
  - [GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java](migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java.md)
  - [GitHub Copilot App Modernization - upgrade for Java](/java/upgrade/overview)

  App Modernization doesn't require Java in your local environment. However, to build your project successfully, install the correct version of Java and Maven. We recommend the [Microsoft Build of OpenJDK](/java/openjdk/) and [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi).

- [AppCAT](/azure/migrate/appcat/java). This tool is required for the app assessment feature.

## Create a custom task

Use the following steps to create a custom task:

1. Clone the [Java migration copilot samples](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/java-migration-copilot-samples) repository.

1. In Visual Studio Code, open the **rabbitmq-sender** project folder in the samples repository. Then, check out the project to the **source** branch.

1. In the **Activity** sidebar, open the **App Modernization for Java** extension pane and then, in the **Tasks - Custom** section, select **Create Custom Task**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/create-task-from-source-control.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/create-task-from-source-control.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code that shows the button for Create Custom Task.":::

1. In the pop-up dialog box, select **Create new task**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/select-create-custom-task.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/select-create-custom-task.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code that shows the Create new task option.":::

1. Type **migrate rabbitmq to service bus** to search for the commit that migrates RabbitMQ. Select the corresponding commit and then select **OK**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/commit-for-custom-task.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/commit-for-custom-task.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Visual Studio Code dialog box with the heading Select commits you want to save.":::

1. Select any uncommitted changes from **Working tree** if they exist, then select **OK**.

1. If you want to import the commits from a file, choose **Select Files** in the next pop-up dialog box. This option enables you to select files that contain the commit history you want to use for the custom task. Then select **OK**. The file you selected is processed locally.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/import-diff-from-file.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/import-diff-from-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code that shows the Describe changes using local files dialog box.":::

1. A default task name is generated. Name it **custom task migrate rabbitmq**, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to confirm. A task description is generated. Press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to confirm.

1. Now, the custom task for migrating `rabbitmq` is generated and shows in the **Tasks - Custom** section of the **App Modernization for Java** pane.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/custom-task-rabbitmq.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/custom-task-rabbitmq.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code that shows the Tasks section with the rabbitmq task showing.":::

## Apply the custom task

Use the following steps to apply the custom task:

1. Check out the project to the **main** branch. Find the custom task in the **Tasks** section of **App Modernization for Java** pane. Run this task by selecting **Run Task**.

   :::image type="content" source="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/run-task.png" lightbox="./media/migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java/run-task.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Visual Studio Code that shows the Tasks section with the Run task button indicated by a tooltip.":::

   After you select the task, the Copilot chat window with Agent Mode opens automatically.

1. Select **Continue** repeatedly to confirm each tool action in the Copilot Chat window. The Copilot Agent uses various tools to facilitate application modernization. Each tool's usage requires confirmation by selecting **Continue**.

1. After each step, manually input **continue** to confirm and proceed.

1. Wait for the code changes to be generated.

1. When you're prompted to run the **Java Application Build-Fix** tool, select **Continue** to build the project and fix errors. This tool attempts to resolve any build errors in up to 10 iterations.

1. After the Build-Fix tool begins, select **Continue** to proceed and show progress.

1. After the tool is finished, review the code changes and confirm them by selecting **Keep**.

## See also

[Predefined tasks for GitHub Copilot App Modernization for Java](migrate-github-copilot-app-modernization-for-java-predefined-tasks.md)
