# Concepts

**GitHub Copilot App Modernization - Java on Azure** is a tool covering application migration to Azure end to end, from application assessment, planning, code remediation and build fix. It aims to help you migrate/run your applications to Azure with confidence and accelerate the whole cycle, powered by the artificial intelligence of GitHub Copilot.

---

**GitHub Copilot App Modernization - Java on Azure** is leveraging **Azure Migrate application and code assessment (AppCAT)** to discover and assess your codes, and usually a good starting point in your app modernization journey. See [AppCAT documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/migrate/appcat/java) for more details.

Developers can invoke **GitHub Copilot App Modernization - Java on Azure** to get an overview of the cloud readiness migration issues along with solution recommendations.  
These solutions can include:
- Instructions for setting up Azure resources  
- Following best practices  
- Changing the application code

---

In scenarios where code changes are required, the **App Modernization - Java on Azure** guides developers to the code remediation step.  
At this stage, developers can use predefined formulas for common issues, such as:

- Switching from password-based authentication to **Managed Identities**
- Moving from **AWS S3** to **Azure Blob Storage**

See [link] to learn more about predefined formulas available in the App Modernization Assistant for Java today.

---

When it comes to development, enterprises often have strict processes and controls.  
This is where **customer-defined formulas** come in.  

Customer-defined formulas are generated by analyzing code commits from an already-migrated application and guide Copilot to remediate code in another app based on the same pattern.  
This enables rapid remediation across multiple applications—each successful migration grows the knowledge base and reduces effort for the next.

---

Finally, the **GitHub Copilot App Modernization Assistant for Java on Azure** includes a **Build Fix Agent** designed to help with build-related errors.  
Since AI-based suggestions can sometimes miss a parameter or change a method incorrectly, the Build Fix Agent intervenes to provide support and correction.

---

## Next Step

[Predefined Formula](#predefined-formula)
